Moon of course stands for Mongo to be expressed react and note and we want to have these four technologies
work together.
We want to build a full stack web application where these four technologies are used because they tend
to work together really well.
But how do they work together.
How are they connected.
The are react is responsible for the client side for the browser side for what they use her CS.
So the presentation and the user interface.
This means that we will use react J.S. to build our front end facing web application.
The thing that runs in the browser react.
Yes as you should know is of course based on javascript it's a javascript library and it's javascript
that is executed in the browser.
So react is used to build beautiful and highly reactive user interfaces in the browser.
It's there to render something onto the screen and re render aid whenever something changes up the user
interface and provide a great user experience to our end users put in our words react is responsible
for what the user sees in the end react alone is great and we can build stunning user interfaces with
it but of course if we only work with react we have some limitations.
Most importantly we're not really able to execute any logic on a server.
So in a place where users can't see our code they can see it in the browser anyone can use the browser
dev tools to look into our code and in addition to running code the user can't see or running more performance
intensive tasks which we also don't want to do in the browser.
In addition to that we typically also want to store some data in a persistent storage and the browser
side is not such a persistent storage.
Users can clear the data there.
The browser might clear data on its own if it's running out of space so data there is not persistent.
It's also not shareable across all users of our web applications because if we stored data in the browser
of course it's only readable by that browser.
So in the end by that user and not of average users of our web application for an online shop where
users are able to create products which should be visible to any user that would be bad.
So that's why we need a so-called back end a server side.
This is a web application that runs on a dedicated machine a server somewhere in the Internet reachable
by anyone so opened up to incoming Internet connections and that server is created and run with the
help of node J.S. and a node framework.
EXPRESS J.S. these two pieces are used to write JavaScript code that runs on a server detached from
our client from our browser.
They are we can run any business logic which we might want to hide from our users or which is more performance
intensive since we run it on a dedicated machine a dedicated server.
We don't rely on the machine of our users which is great.
We also can use node and express for files storage and we will in this course.
And therefore this is an important part of a real web application.
Now does server side and the client side so the browser communicate with requests and responses H to
the p requests and responses specifically so-called Ajax or as I like to call them behind the scenes
requests and responses requests and response is triggered from client side JavaScript so that they are
sent to the server and the response is handled in the client without reloading the page on the client.
That is achieved by exchanging data which is not a h to mail page which would be rendered by the browser
and which would therefore lead to a page refresh but instead which is a so-called Jason format.
There also are other formats you could use and we'll have a look at one hour format in this course.
But Jason is by far the most common form for exchanging data.
Jason stands for JavaScript object notation and it's a machine readable and all quite human readable
data format which in and is used to exchange text data numeric data and structured data in any form.
This date as attached to both requests sent from the client to the server and responses received by
the client incoming from the server to then re render something on the client side so using react re
render parts of the UI or to do something on the server side if the data's received there.
For example stored in a database.
Now speaking of death the database Mongo D.B. is missing in this picture.
Now that's our third building block.
If you want to call it like this we also have an extra database server which runs our Mongo D.B. engine.
And that's really important to understand.
In the end of this picture there are free big blocks working together to servers one running our node
express app and one running database engine and declined side that's all involved of course.
Now that database server can run on the same machine as our node express server or on a totally different
machine that doesn't really matter.
The database server in long would he be is then used for the persistent data storage not file storage.
You should always store files on a file system not in a database but any other data like the name of
a product the price of a product the users of our web application things like that would be stored in
a database like Mongo TB.
Now the important question when we have a look at this incomplete picture here is who's talking to the
database server.
And that is our note express application that application sense database queries using the Mongo D.B.
SDK or among would be library to be precise to that database server.
We don't send requests from the client side directly to the database.
Why.
Because to send these queries we need to include our database credentials so the user name and password
to log into our database so to say.
As I mentioned earlier all the code dad runs on the client side.
So in the browser is readable by all your users.
There is no way of disabling this.
This is how the web works.
So if Dad code would include the credentials for your database your users could hack your database they
could gain access to it.
So we do this on the server side where the code is not readable by our users and from the client side.
We just send requests or responses to the server and on the server we decide which requests who want
to handle and which responses we want to send back.
So we have full control on the server side and the client is only able to communicate with the server
within the request response patterns we allow.
And that is of course where we will build in detail throughout this course.
This is the big picture for the merged architecture.
This is how all the pieces work together and which pieces are involved in the first place.
And this architecture allows us to build amazing web applications highly scalable and very fast Web
applications with a beautiful and highly reactive user interface powered by react attached to them.
Now with that let's take a closer look at some of these building blocks.